Jerusha Theobald

Privacy Reflection - Week 3 Assignment

Product One: Google Privacy Terms
Source Link: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en-US

Product Two: Yahoo Privacy Terms
Source Link: https://legal.yahoo.com/us/en/yahoo/privacy/index.html

Google Policy Reflection:
In my opinion what I noticed was good was that users of some of their products do not necessarily need to have an account to  access some of their services. In addition you can use many Google services when you’re signed out of an account that you have created on their platform.
In my opinion what I noticed was bad, having the ability to utilize some of their services without an account, protection of privacy becomes an issue. 
In my opinion what I noticed was a potential red flag that when a user is not signed in to a Google Account, Google stores information with unique identifiers tied to the browser, application, or devices used to maintain preferences across browsing sessions or ads based on the users activity.
From what I could ascertain, data collected includes your location, IP address, searches, preferences, and when a user signs in Google collects information about a users activity on their services and stores it with the users Google Account. Google collects information about the apps, browsers, and devices users use to access Google services and information about things near a user's device such as Wi-Fi access points, cell towers, and Bluetooth-enabled devices.
To my understanding Google can use your data as aligned in their vast policy which includes keeping  data until the user deletes their Google Account, such as information about how often you use our services. Also some data Google retains for longer periods of time when “necessary for legitimate business or legal purposes, such as security, fraud and abuse prevention, or financial record-keeping.” 
How data may not be used was not clear as all data usage seems to be securely covered and justified in their vast policy.
Yahoo Policy Reflection:
In my opinion, what I noticed was Yahoo states that they believe users should have tools to control their information; such as controls to manage or review account information, marketing preferences, location data, and search history and that they detect and defend users against fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful activity.
In my opinion what I noticed was bad was the fact that Yahoo may use device IDs, cookies, and other signals, including information obtained from third parties, to associate accounts and/or devices with their product users.
In my opinion what I noticed was a potential red flag is Yahoo’s repetitive mention of third parties in their policy who remain outside of the knowledge or accessibility control of the user.
From what I could ascertain, data collected includes the information that you provide to Yahoo when you use their services.
From what I could ascertain data is maintained by Yahoo and third parties. 
How data may be used according to Yahoo, much like Google’s policy which includes methods to improve their product and a user’s experience with their product. 
How data may not be used with Yahoo, like Google, is not clearly evident as its policy justifies its usage and accessibility to user generated data to protect the user and improve their product for their users.
In summary the policies of both products for this summary are worded slightly different, however both indistinguishably cover all the bases to justify use of a users data, whether or not they have an account with Google or Yahoo under the umbrella of providing a better user experience while protecting their users.

